# Day 21 (19.09.22)

## Note from texts in Day 20

### I

A Git workflow is a recipe or recommendation for how to use Git to accomplish work in a consistent and productive manner.

Workflows are designed to be guidelines rather than concrete rules.

**The Centralized Workflow** uses a central repository to serve as the single point-of-entry for all changes to the project. 
This workflow doesn’t require any other branches besides "main".

The core idea behind **The Feature Branch Workflow** is that all feature development should take place in a dedicated branch instead of the main branch. This encapsulation makes it easy for multiple developers to work on a particular feature without disturbing the main codebase. It also means the main branch should never contain broken code, which is a huge advantage for continuous integration environments. 

The **Forking Workflow** is fundamentally different than the other workflows discussed in this tutorial. Instead of using a single server-side repository to act as the “central” codebase, it gives every developer a server-side repository. This means that each contributor has not one, but two Git repositories: a private local one and a public server-side one. 

Source: https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/comparing-workflows

### II

Submodules allow you to keep a Git repository as a subdirectory of another Git repository. This lets you clone another repository into your project and keep your commits separate.

A common issue arises in these scenarios: you want to be able to treat the two projects as separate yet still be able to use one from within the other.

Source: https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Submodules

### III

What is a monorepo?

Definitions vary, but we define a monorepo as follows:

The repository contains more than one logical project (e.g. an iOS client and a web-application)
These projects are most likely unrelated, loosely connected or can be connected by other means (e.g via dependency management tools)

The repository is large in many ways:
Number of commits
Number of branches and/or tags
Number of files tracked
Size of content tracked (as measured by looking at the .git directory of the repository)

Source: https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/monorepos

