# Day 4 (12.08.22)

## Difference between *mobile first* and *desktop first* design

It's all about priority.

You have the oportunnity to choose what's more important for your clients / users of your website.

In desktop first design we focus on making good-looking website on desktop devices and then we think how to convert it or how to prepare that site for mobile screens.

In mobile first design, we do straight opposite. We start with building functional and pretty mobile website and then we think what to add, that we use whole desktop potential.

Responsive Web Design is most common way to go, but that's not perfect imo.
You still are forced to make decisions about cutting content, so it can fit in smaller screen.
I think that another solution will come to us in near future.

Source of information: [Source](https://www.bluepages.pl/koncepcje-desktop-mobile/ "Desktop vs mobile")

## *Fixed* vs *Fluid* vs *Elastic* layout

So, I discovered that **Fixed** layout depends on hardly set width. No matter what screen resolution a user has, he will see the same width as other visitors.
This width is expressed in pixels.

In **Fluid** layout we deal with percentages, not pixels. Texts, images or anything on our site will automatically change its width based on percantage amount and convert that for users resolution.

**Elastic** layout use relative unit named "EM", which comply to font size. *Pixel is not flexible, but EM is.*

It works by sizing all elements depending on EM.

Each of above layouts has their own pros and cons, but I suppose that Elastic is the smartest one.

I don't have any experience so I may be wrong :)

Source of information: [Source](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2009/06/fixed-vs-fluid-vs-elastic-layout-whats-the-right-one-for-you/ "Fixed vs Fluid vs Elastic")

## *Responsive* vs *Adaptive* vs *Fluid* design

Starting from the end, I already wrote what **Fluid** means. It uses percentages for widths.

**Responsive (RWD)** is also known to me as a design, which is acting adequately into size of screen. It use CSS breakpoints. Those are set width at which a website changes into different responsive view.

**Adaptive (AWD)** use CSS media queries to identify specific device sizes. Then it deliver layout prepared for this conrete device. It has huge disadvantage, because you have to update your code for every new device that comes to the market.

Source of information: [Source](https://learn.onemonth.com/responsive-vs-adaptive-vs-fluid-design/ "RWD vs AWD vs Fluid")

## Git vs Svn vs Mercurial vs Tfs

I decided not to describe each of them, because I think that's too soon. I don't understand too many words used by people describing those Control Sources.

However, I found out that TFS is more capable that GIT and SVN, because they are just control sources and TFS is a whole management solution, whatever that means.

TFS is also the most tightly integrated into Visual Studio.

I have to talk to my mentor about that issue. I need someone who can explain me this ,,face 2 face".
